= couchbase-cli-setting-autoreprovision(1)
ifndef::doctype-manpage[:doctitle: setting-autoreprovision]

ifdef::doctype-manpage[]
== NAME

couchbase-cli-setting-autoreprovision -
endif::[]
Modifies auto-reprovision settings

== SYNOPSIS

[verse]
_couchbase-cli setting-autoreprovision_ [--cluster <url>] [--username <user>]
    [--password <password>] [--enabled <1|0>] [--max-nodes <num>]

== DESCRIPTION

Auto-reprovisioning is used in order to prevent data loss in ephemeral buckets
during failure scenarios when a node crashes and restarts quickly. Under this
scenario auto-reprovisioning ensures that an ephemeral bucket's replica vBuckets
are promoted to active state. This mechanism is not needed for Couchbase buckets
because a Couchbase buckets data is persisted to disk and can be loaded back
into memory after a node restarts. Ephemeral buckets on the other hand
completely lose their data when a node crashes and replicas must be relied upon
in order to prevent data loss. If ephemeral buckets are not in use this setting
has no effect on the cluster.

Auto-reprovisioning can either be enabled or disabled. If you have ephemeral
buckets it is always recommended that auto-reprovisioning is enabled otherwise
the cluster will experience data loss if a node crashes or is restarted. Users
can also specify the number of nodes that can be auto-reprovisioned before the
cluster is rebalanced. An auto-reprovision event occurs if a cluster has at
least one ephemeral bucket and a node crashes and restarts. If the number of
crashes and restarts exceed the maximum number of nodes that can be
auto-reprovisioned then the next crash and restart will result in data loss for
all ephemeral buckets in the cluster.

When setting the max nodes parameter, note that specifying the max nodes to be
too high could result in cascading node failures. This can happen because when a
node fails and restarts the server load for the crashed node is distributed to
the rest of the servers in the cluster. This extra load could cause the one or
more of the remaining servers in the cluster to become overloaded and
unresponsive leading to more failures. On the other hand specifying max nodes to
be too small could lead to data loss if there are many failures in the cluster at
the same time. How this variable is set depends on the cluster size, workload,
and configuration. However, it is always recommended that auto-reprovisioning is
at least enabled and that max nodes is set to at least 1.

== OPTIONS

include::{partialsdir}/cbcli/part-common-options.adoc[]

--enabled <num>::
  Specifies whether or not auto-reprovisioning is enabled. Set this option to
  "1" to enable autofailover or "0" to disable autofailover.

--max-nodes <num>::
  Specifies the maximum number of servers that can be auto-reprovisioned
  before a rebalance must take place (which resets the count). This parameter
  must always be set to a number greater than or equal to 1.

include::{partialsdir}/cbcli/part-host-formats.adoc[]

== EXAMPLES

To enable auto-reprovisioning and allow up to three nodes be auto-reprovisioned
before a rebalance takes place run the following command.

  $ couchbase-cli setting-autoreprovision -c 192.168.1.5 -u Administrator \
   -p password --enabled 1 --max-nodes 3

To disable auto-reprovisioning run the following command.

  $ couchbase-cli setting-autoreprovision -c 192.168.1.5 -u Administrator \
   -p password --enabled 0

== ENVIRONMENT AND CONFIGURATION VARIABLES

include::{partialsdir}/cbcli/part-common-env.adoc[]

== SEE ALSO

man:couchbase-cli-setting-autofailover[1]

include::{partialsdir}/cbcli/part-footer.adoc[]
