couchbase-cli-setting-compaction(1)
===================================

NAME
----
couchbase-cli-setting-compaction - Modifies compaction settings

SYNOPSIS
--------
[verse]
'couchbase-cli setting-compaction' [--cluster <url>] [--username <user>]
	  [--password <password>] [--compaction-db-percentage <num>]
	  [--compaction-db-size <megabytes>] [--compaction-view-percentage <num>]
	  [--compaction-view-size <megabytes>] [--compaction-period-from <HH:MM>]
	  [--compaction-period-to <HH:MM>] [--enable-compaction-abort <num>]
	  [--enable-compaction-parallel <num>] [--metadata-purge-interval <num>]
	  [--gsi-compaction-mode <mode>] [--compaction-gsi-percentage <percent>]
	  [--compaction-gsi-interval <list_of_days>]
	  [--compaction-gsi-period-from <HH:MM>]
	  [--compaction-gsi-period-to <HH:MM>] [--enable-gsi-compaction-abort <1|0>]

DESCRIPTION
-----------

This command sets cluster-wide compaction settings for the views and data
service.

OPTIONS
-------

include::part-common-options.txt[]

--compaction-db-percentage <num>::
	Compacts database files once the fragmentation percentage is greater than
	the value set for this option. The value must be between 2 and 100.

--compaction-db-size <megabytes>::
	Compacts the database files once the file fragmentation (in MB) is greater
	than the value of this option. This option must be set to a value
	greater than 1.

--compaction-view-percentage <num>::
	Compacts view files once the fragmentation percentage is greater than the
	value set for this option. The value must be between 2 and 100.

--compaction-view-size: <megabytes>::
	Compacts the view files once the file fragmentation (in MB) is greater than
	the value of this option. This option must be set to a value greater than 1.

--compaction-period-from <HH:MM>::
	This option is unison in conjunction with the --compaction-period-to option
	and is used to specify a time period where compaction is allowed to run. You
	could for example specify that compaction should only run between midnight
	and 5AM each day by setting the compaction from period to "00:00" and the
	compaction to period to "5:00". When setting the value for this option you
	must use the format HH:MM when HH corresponds to the hour and MM corresponds
	to the minute. If this option is not specified then the compaction will run
	at any time of the day. This option only affects view and database file
	compaction.

--compaction-period-to <HH:MM>::
	This option is unison in conjunction with the --compaction-period-from option
	and is used to specify a time period where compaction is allowed to run. You
	could for example specify that compaction should only run between midnight
	and 5AM each day by setting the compaction from period to "00:00" and the
	compaction to period to "5:00". When setting the value for this option you
	must use the format HH:MM when HH corresponds to the hour and MM corresponds
	to the minute. If this option is not specified then the compaction will run
	at any time of the day. This option only affects view and database file
	compaction.

--enable-compaction-abort <num>::
	If a compaction from period and compaction to period are specified then this
	flag tells the server how to respond if a compaction starts during the
	allowed compaction interval and is still running once after the allowed
	interval has ended. If this option is set to "1" then the compaction will
	be aborted. If it is set to "0" then the compaction will be allowed to
	complete. By default this option is set to "0".

--enable-compaction-parallel <num>::
	Specifies whether view and database file compaction can run at the same
	time. Compaction can be disk intensive operations so it may be beneficial
	to only allow one type of compaction to run at a time. To allow parallel
	compaction set the value of this option to "1". To disable parallel
	compaction set the value of this option to "0". By default this option is
	set to "0".

--metadata-purge-interval <days>::
	Couchbase persists deletes to disk because these deletes may need to be
	replicated in the future during intra-cluster replication as well as during
	Cross Data Center Replication. Couchbase cannot however keep these deletes
	forever because they will cause the database disk size to increase
	infinitely over time. To combat this issue Couchbase purges old deletes from
	disk periodically. This flag allow the user to set this interval. By default
	the purge interval is set to 7 days. This means that we purge deletes from
	disk that are more than 7 days old. The value of this option must be between
	0.04 (1 hour) and 60 (days).

--gsi-compaction-mode <mode>::
	Specifies the strategy for compaction in GSI Indexes. This option may be set
	to either append or circular. The append compaction strategy works by
	creating a new index file, moving the active data to the new index file, and
	then removing the old index file. This strategy will cause increased disk
	usage during compaction, but will cause the new index file to be smaller
	than the old one and as a result will free up disk space. The circular
	compaction strategy will append data at first until the index is 65%
	fragmented. At which point it will start to write data over old blocks in the
	file that are no longer being used. A full compaction will be triggered once a
	day on the day set via --compaction-gsi-interval.

--compaction-gsi-percentage <percent>::
	Specifies that GSI compaction should be started when the fragmentation in an
	index file has exceeded this percentage. This parameter only applies if the
	append compaction mode is used.

--compaction-gsi-interval <list_of_days>::
	Specifies that GSI compaction should only run on the specified days. This
	option takes a comma separated list of days where the name of the day is
	capitalized. Accepted values are Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday,
	Friday, Saturday, and Sunday. If you only want compaction to run on Monday
	and Tuesday then the value of this option should be set to "Monday,Tuesday".
	This parameter only applies if circular compaction mode is used.

--compaction-gsi-period-from <HH:MM>::
	This option is unison in conjunction with the --compaction-gsi-period-to
	option and is used to specify a time period where GSI compaction is allowed
	to run. You could for example specify that GSI compaction should only run
	between midnight and 5AM each day by setting the GSI compaction from period
	to "00:00" and the GSI compaction to period to "5:00". When setting the
	value for this option you must use the format HH:MM when HH corresponds to
	the hour and MM corresponds to the minute. If this option is not specified
	then compaction will run at any time of the day. This parameter only
	applies if circular compaction mode is used.

--compaction-gsi-period-to <HH:MM>::
	This option is unison in conjunction with the --compaction-gsi-period-from
	option and is used to specify a time period where GSI compaction is allowed
	to run. You could for example specify that GSI compaction should only run
	between midnight and 5AM each day by setting the GSI compaction from period
	to "00:00" and the GSI compaction to period to "5:00". When setting the
	value for this option you must use the format HH:MM when HH corresponds to
	the hour and MM corresponds to the minute. If this option is not specified
	then GSI compaction will run at any time of the day. This parameter only
	applies if circular compaction mode is used.

--enable-gsi-compaction-abort <1|0>::
	If a GSI compaction from period and GSI compaction to period are specified
	then this flag tells the server how to respond if a compaction starts during
	the allowed GSI compaction interval and is still running after the allowed
	interval has ended. If this option is set to "1" then the GSI compaction
	will be aborted. If it is set to "0" then the GSI compaction will be allowed
	to complete. By default this option is set to "0". This parameter only
	applies if circular compaction mode is used.

include::part-host-formats.txt[]

EXAMPLES
--------

If we want to set our view and database compaction percentage thresholds to 30%
each, but also wanted to ensure that our fragmentation didn't grow above 1GB
we would run the following command

	$ couchbase-cli setting-compaction -c 192.168.1.5 --username Administrator \
	 --password password --compaction-view-size 1024 --compaction-db-size 1024 \
	 --compaction-view-percentage 30 --compaction-db-percentage 30

If we want to have the same settings as above, but we wanted compaction to only
run at night so that we didn't run the risk of compaction affecting normal
application traffic we would run the following command. Note that in this
example we will assume our night time period is midnight to 6AM. We will also
enable compaction aborts so that we can ensure compaction is never running
outside of this time window.

	$ couchbase-cli setting-compaction -c 192.168.1.5 --username Administrator \
	 --password password --compaction-view-size 1024 --compaction-db-size 1024 \
	 --compaction-view-percentage 30 --compaction-db-percentage 30 \
	 --compaction-period-from 00:00 --compaction-period-to 6:00 \
	 --enable-compaction-abort 1

If we don't mind when compaction runs and we have the disk overhead to run both
view and database compaction at the same time then we might set up compaction
with the settings in the first example, but also enable parallel compaction.
This can be done by running the command below.

	$ couchbase-cli setting-compaction -c 192.168.1.5 --username Administrator \
	 --password password --compaction-view-size 1024 --compaction-db-size 1024 \
	 --compaction-view-percentage 30 --compaction-db-percentage 30 \
	 --enable-compaction-parallel

If your application heavily uses expirations or you create and delete a lot of
documents quickly then you might want to shorten your metadata purge interval
in order to ensure that you don't use too much disk space. If we want our
compaction to run when the fragmentation is 30% or 1GB and we want to change
the metadata purge interval to 2 days then we would run the following command.

	$ couchbase-cli setting-compaction -c 192.168.1.5 --username Administrator \
	 --password password --compaction-view-size 1024 --compaction-db-size 1024 \
	 --compaction-view-percentage 30 --compaction-db-percentage 30 \
	 --meta-data-purge-interval 2

If you need to change the GSI index compaction settings to use the append
compaction mode and want GSI compaction only to happen once your file is 50%
fragmented specify the following command.

	$ couchbase-cli setting-compaction -c 192.168.1.5 --username Administrator \
	 --password password --gsi-compaction-mode append \
	 --compaction-gsi-percentage 50

If you want to change the GSI index compaction settings to use the circular
compaction mode and want GSI compaction only to happen on Tuesdays and Thursdays
between midnight and 3AM and don't want GSI compaction running outside of those
time windows even if the compaction started at a valid time specify the
following command.

	$ couchbase-cli setting-compaction -c 192.168.1.5 --username Administrator \
	 --password password --gsi-compaction-mode circular \
	 --compaction-gsi-interval Tuesday,Thursday \
	 --compaction-gsi-period-from 00:00 \
	 --compaction-gsi-period-to 3:00 --enable-gsi-compaction-abort 1

ENVIRONMENT AND CONFIGURATION VARIABLES
---------------------------------------

include::part-common-env.txt[]

SEE ALSO
--------
linkcbdoc:couchbase-cli-bucket-compact[1].

include::part-footer.txt[]
